Final Project
CS 496
Kyle Bedell
bedellk@oregonstate.edu
Introduction
My friend is an ESL instructor at a community college. After classes, he holds one-to-one question and answer sessions with students. He has a paper list that they sign up on, and he crosses them out one by one as he goes. They wait for him in the computer lab and he walks around to them.

Instead of always having to go back to the master list to see who is next and cross him or her off the list, I thought it might be nice to have a web app that allows students to sign up to the list and teachers to cross them off. Most students and teachers have smartphones, so an iOS app was a logical choice.

This application is implemented using the Ionic framework, which has the benefit of creating mobile applications that can be built on both Android and iOS. This particular project is targeted towards iOS.
Video
For a brief walkthrough of the features of this application, please see this video:
https://www.dropbox.com/s/23ehi4u8mp15aqd/final-project-video.mp4?dl=0
API
In your written documentation you should document your restful API. Give us the list of URIs, what calls to those URIs do using the 4 major HTTP verbs (GET, POST, PUT and DELETE)
The base URL for the API calls is: https://project-4-144319.appspot.com

Also, you can point your browser to the above URL to access a simple HTML admin interface for the application. The following accounts have been authorized to access it: wolfordj@onid.oregonstate.edu, basag@oregonstate.edu and subraman@oregonstate.edu.

The API uses all 4 major HTTP verbs. All variables are required unless otherwise stated.
Get All User Information
GET /api/user
Returns JSON representing all users in the system:

Get One User's Information
GET /api/user/[user ID]
Returns JSON representing the queried user.
Edit Existing User's Information
POST /api/user/
POST variables:
first_name - string
last_name - string
email - string
token - admin user token for the user to be changed
Returns JSON representing the updated user.
Create New User
POST /api/user/
POST variables:
first_name - string
last_name - string
email - string
password - string
user_type - 'admin' for teachers or 'user' for students
Returns JSON representing the created user.
Get All Line Entry Information
GET /api/lineentry
Returns JSON representing all line entries in the system:
	created - string in the form '%d/%m/%y %H:%M'
	user - user ID integer
Log In
POST /api/login
POST variables:
password - string
email - string
Returns JSON with a token that identifies the logged in user. This token must be used for some operations (see below).
Add User to Line
PUT /api/lineentry/[user ID of user to be added to line]
Returns JSON information about the created line entry:
	created - string in the form '%d/%m/%y %H:%M'
	user - user ID
Delete Line Entry (Authenticated)
POST /api/lineentry/
POST variables:
token - must be a token for an administrator account
lineentry - ID of line entry to be deleted
Returns nothing if successful, 403 for an authentication error.
Delete User
DELETE /api/user/[user ID]
Returns nothing if successful.
Mobile Feature
Discuss what mobile feature you implemented.
The mobile feature I implemented is the badge number on the icon. It represents the number of students currently in line, and could be useful for teachers who want to monitor how many students they have left at a glance from their iOS home screen.

The implementation used a library called ng-cordova, which glues together AngularJS with Cordova plugins. On iOS, permissions for these notifications must be approved by the user, so we use some boilerplate to set up that initial authentication. More details about this implementation can be found on my How To site: http://web.engr.oregonstate.edu/~bedellk/hello-ionic/5.html
Account System
Finally, discuss your account system. If you created it by hand the standards are lower than if you use an 'off the shelf' implementation. For example, if you create your own implementation it would be fine to simply send a username and password in the clear as authorization and authentication. This would obviously be a very poor option in terms of security, but it will be a fairly complex problem without worrying about security. If you use something like an implementation of OAuth then it should generally work as intended.
I created my account system by hand. Users log in with their email and password, and the API returns to them an HTML-friendly version of the key that is autogenerated by the Google Datastore.

This system works well enough, but it is not secure. If even one token is compromised via a man-in-the-middle attack or similar, any user would be given administrative privileges to the system. A better approach would be a public key system or something like OAuth or similar, which would obscure these secrets behind cryptography.
Conclusion
As a project for this class, this application was built to fulfill the requirements for a RESTful-like API that shows competency in writing applications for mobile using a web API.

For the purposes of my friend the teacher, this application should prove useful with the addition of support for student logins (they were not implemented in this version due to time constraints). From a technical standpoint the application should improve its security for user authentication. Passwords are passed in the open, and tokens are easily decipherable to entities saved in the datastore.

A viable alternative to this would be either using Google's built-in user authentication, which would require all users to have a Google account, or JSON Web Tokens. Both would ensure better security than the application as it works now.


